- [Instructor] In the last several videos,
we've talked about how to build
and package and deploy our Spring Boot apps.
But now with our basic understanding
of GitHub actions,
we're going to create a workflow
that automates the process
of deploying our code to AWS Beanstalk.
One thing I want to point out as we go forward,
this video and the next several videos
are not meant to be deep dives into GitHub actions,
explaining the intricacies
and how to write custom out-of-the-box solutions.
The attempt here is to expose you, the learner,
at a very high level to the possibilities
of how you can write and create your own GitHub workflows.
We're going to be using a couple of pre-written solutions
in this video to explain how one might automate a build,
packaging and deployment of a Spring Boot app
as a JAR to AWS.
For this exercise,
we're going to start off looking
at the repository that we created locally.
If you followed my previous example,
that project is located in your home directory
called SpringBootProduction.
Although we're going to be working out of Git
and this project folder for the next several videos,
the start and ending state
will still be stored in our lab files.
For example, this lab file still has 04_02_begin
and 04_02_end.
Let's go ahead and open our SpringBootProdApplication,
which is in our home directory SpringBootProduction.
I've already opened mine.
Once you're there, go down to the terminal window
and we're going to type git branch.
As we can see here,
we're on the main branch.
So let's create a new branch,
typing git checkout -b jar_workflow_aws.
We'll hit Enter.
Now, we've created the branch
and switched to it all at the same time.
We'll verify by typing git status.
And as you can see, we're on the newly created branch.
Let's go ahead and push this new branch
to our GitHub repository.
We'll type git push -u origin jar_workflow_aws.
Hit Enter.
Mine went through without errors.
You may be prompted, however, for a password,
and this is where you would use the personal access token
that we created before.
Let's switch back to our browser now
and take a look at the SpringBootProduction repository.
If we go ahead and refresh the browser window,
we should see now that there are two branches.
We click the dropdown for main,
we'll see there's main and now jar_workflows_aws.
Let's switch back to IntelliJ.
And we're going to open the github,
workflows and then gradle file.
Github, workflows and then gradle.
I want you to right click on that file,
go down to Refactor, Rename.
We're going to change the name of this
to build-package-deploy.aws.
And we're going to click refactor.
Next, we're going to go down to the terminal window.
We'll type git status.
And then we're going to type git commit -m
changed the name to match
what this workflow will become.
Close quotes, hit Enter.
Okay, so we're going to add some actions
that will create an artifact
that we can download for our automated builds.
Having code-generated artifacts gives us
a clean build environment
for other testing and deploying
to other environments as well.
Before we do this,
we want a way of marking this artifact
for our version with a timestamp.
And this is also very useful
when we get to tracking our JARs in AWS.
So let's use another GitHub workflow created
for this purpose.
Inside the YAML file, we'll scroll to the bottom.
We're going to hit Enter after the run gradle build.
We're going to back space one spot there
and type - name:
and we want to make sure that we follow the formatting.
The formatting here will get you into trouble
when we run this in GitHub later.
So please pay close attention to the formatting.
We'll call this Create Timestamp for Version Info.
Hit Enter.
We're going to use the id field.
We'll use this id field later on, hit Enter.
We're going to type uses:
and this is the prebuilt GitHub action
that we're going to use.
Nanzm/get-time-action
and the version number, @v1.1.
Hit Enter.
I'm going to type with: hit Enter again.
Make sure you're tabbed over.
IntelliJ does this for us automatically.
We'll type format: single quotes,
close single quotes
and inside of that in all caps,
we'll type YYYY
for the year, MM for the month.
DD for the day, HH for the hour,
lowercase now, mm for the minute,
ss for the seconds.
We're going to use this time format in a moment
not only for our artifact versioning name
but also for our AWS deployment version name.
Okay, right below this,
we're going to hit Enter, back space out again
to be in line with the dashes up top.
I'm going to type - name:
Make Artifact Available.
Hit Enter.
We're going to use another GitHub action created for this.
So type uses: actions/upload-artifact
and the version is @v2.
Hit Enter again.
With: hit Enter again.
Make sure you're tabbed to the right spot.
Type name: put this in double quotes.
Artifact-$ curly bracket, curly bracket,
close curly bracket, close curly bracket.
Inside of this, we'll type steps.time.
Time references the ID that we used up top.
Outputs.time.
So the dollar sign, double curly brackets,
this is used to access special variables
in GitHub with their action YAML files.
The variable has an outputs.time
that we can access in appending it
to the name of our artifact.
Okay, at the end of that line,
we're going to hit Enter again
and we're going to type path: build/libs
and we're going to save.
Now, we're going to test this YAML file first
against our jar_workflow_aws branch.
And in order to do that,
we're going to have to up and modify this.
So let's first go up and change the branch name
that the action depends on
to jar_workflow_aws.
We'll save that, we're going to come all the way
to the bottom.
And we're going to add one more thing
and that is a retention period.
Say retention-days equals five.
When the artifact is created,
the artifact will be there by default by 90 days.
We don't want that to kind of clutter up our environment.
So we're going to set ours to five
and after five, they'll disappear.
Okay, we're going to save that,
we're going to come down here and type git add dot.
Git commit -m
and we're going to say that we have added the changes
to test our workflow.
Now, keep in mind,
we have changed the branch here just temporarily.
We're going to change that back in the next video.
So we have one final step
and now it's to push it to GitHub.
So we'll type git push -u
origin, name of our branch again.
Jar_workflow_aws.
We are pushing it to this branch
and because we've changed the action
that it's listening on,
anything it's pushed to this branch, it should fire off.
So hit Enter.
And we're going to switch over to our browser window again.
I'm going to click on Actions.
And we can see that it's running.
We're going to click on it.
And we have an error
and it looks like I mistyped the S.
It needs to be a Z.
So we're going to go back, save this.
Git add.
Git commit.
And git push.
Okay, go back to our workflow one more time.
Click on this.
Like it's running.
We'll click on the build.
And as we can see, it's building with Gradle.
The timestamp is created.
The artifact is posted.
And it's saying that the job is complete.
So we're going to click on the summary
and now we should see an artifact with a timestamp.